Add design doc for single-node cluster (#3300)
aws/eks-anywhere: designs/single-node-cluster.md

# Single Node Cluster

## Introduction

> Some customers want to run Kubernetes on a single server. In response to this demand, we have done POC to investigate EKSA single-node cluster support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some customers want to run Kubernetes on a single server. In response to this demand, we have done a POC to investigate EKSA single-node cluster support.
```

In the POC, we have proved that single-node k8s deployment are possible by running workloads on the control plane node. From there, we will do testing and validation of various components, such as cilium, kube-vip, to ensure there are no issues running everything on one node.

## Goals and objectives

Allow cluster administrators to use EKS-A CLI to manage their single-node clusters like how they managing their multi-node clusters.

### Statement of scope

**In scope**

1. Design the interface for creating single-node cluster

> 2. Modify EKSA so it can create/delete single-node cluster correctly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Modify EKSA so it can create/delete single-node clusters correctly
```

3. Test and validate the single-node cluster created by EKSA, 1) out of box CPU/Memory usages should be smaller than 2 core / 8gb for Ubuntu 20.04 Bare Metal server, 2) all kube-system/eksa-system pods should be running correctly. 

The above items applies to all infrastructure providers, but *Tinkerbell is our first priority.*

**Out of Scope**

1. Achieve high availability for single-node cluster

**Future scope (forward looking)**

> 1. Upgrade single-node cluster (rolling upgrade and in-place upgrade), including change the single-node cluster to a multi-nodes cluster. Customer cares more about kubeversion update. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Upgrade single-node cluster (rolling upgrades and in-place upgrades), including changing the single-node cluster to a multi-nodes cluster.
```

> 2. Removing built-in pods to give more compute resources to workload. Right now, we are in a good position with the claim of 2 core / 8gb requirement and the situation will be improved even further if our customer deploy a separate management cluster to run management pods. We’ll prioritize to roll out the beta version, so our customer can test it let us know whether there is a real need to squeeze our core components and to what degree before GA. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Removing built-in pods to give more compute resources to workload. Right now, we are in a good position with the claim of 2 core / 8gb requirement and the situation will be improved even further if we deploy a separate management cluster to run management pods. We’ll prioritize rolling out a beta version so we can get performance feedback and determine whether to further optimize core component resource usage before to GA.
```

**Tenets**

* *Minimum:* minimize interface/code change, minimize the compute resources used by single-node cluster
* *Ubiquitous:* single-node cluster is supported for all providers (vSphere, Tinkerbell, Docker, etc.) with the same interface

> * *Complete:* all k8s API resources is supported in single-node cluster, a workload that can run in multi-node cluster should be portable to single-node cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Complete:* all k8s API resources are supported in single-node cluster. A workload that can run in multi-node cluster should be portable to single-node cluster.
```

## Solution Overview

> In a multi-nodes kubernetes cluster, there are control-plane nodes and worker nodes. The control-plane nodes run infrastructure services like schedulers, proxy, controller-managers etc, while the worker nodes run mainly workload pods, besides kubelet and kube-proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a multi-node kubernetes cluster, there are control-plane nodes and worker nodes. The control-plane nodes run infrastructure services like schedulers, proxy, controller-managers etc, while the worker nodes run mainly workload pods, besides kubelet and kube-proxy.
```

![multi-node-cluster](images/multi-node-cluster.png)

> To create a single-node kubernetes cluster, we need to remove worker nodes, since it doesn’t run the infrastructure components. Worker nodes' workloads pods will transfer to control-plane. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a single-node kubernetes cluster, we need to remove worker nodes, since they don't run the infrastructure components. Worker nodes' workloads pods will transfer to the control-plane. 
```

![cluster-without-worker-node](images/cluster-without-worker-node.png)

> The transfer can be done by removing taint (https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/) (node-role.kubernetes.io/master:NoSchedule) from the control plane nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transfer can be done by removing the taint (https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/) (node-role.kubernetes.io/master:NoSchedule) from the control plane nodes.
```

## Design Details 

Process for cluster administrators to create a k8s cluster with EKSA: 

1. Get an admin machine, install EKSA CLI
2. Create a cluster definition file in yaml (if using tinkerbell, a hardware.csv is also needed)

> 3. Run command eksctl anywhere create cluster -f cluster.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run command `eksctl anywhere create cluster -f cluster.yaml`
```
